xxxii Pontificals os English and Scotch. Use.

From this it has been supposed that these books were
written for Bishops of Ely; the Cathedral of Ely being
dedicated to S. AEt‘heldrytha„ and Sexburga and Wihtburga
being her sisters and Eormenhilda closely connected with her.

The Trin. Goll. MS contains at the end of the Coronation
service, the Litany printed from the Ordo Romanus in the
Appendix to this volume, in an abridged and general form,
the King, Queen and Archbishop not being specially named.
There are a good many vex-bal variations between the two
formS. Among the Saints invoked in this MS are SS.
Edmund, Ermengeld, Oswald, Dunstan, AElphege, George.

XVII. ·

Magd. Goll. Oxford, nc. 226. Saec. XII.

This book, of which only one or two leaves are missing,
belonged in 1348 to the Cathedral of Hereford, as is seen
from a list of contents on the outside folio. There are a
good many marginal alterationS‚ all of the xivth Century.

The only internal evidence as to locality is common to this
book and all the xiith Century books in this list, namely
that it was written for the holder of a See in the Province of
Canterbury‚ from the Decretum Sec. de electo EpiscopO.

‘⁶ Venerando Sanctae Cantuariensis Ecclesiae Metropolitano

N. clerus et populus Ecclesiae ill. debitam subjectionem ;
and in the Examinatio Episcopi.

· Inter. Vis Sanctae Dorobernensi Ecclesiae fidem et sub·
jectionem per omnia exhibere ’ἔ

There are some leaves inserted in the earlier part of the
MS containing in a hand of the xivth Century the Prefaces
and the Canon of the Mass (without rubrics.) The rubrics
of the Prefaces correspond to those of the York Missal, and
not, to those of the Sarum or Hereford.

